Update overview.md (#94)
sigstore/docs: content/en/cosign/overview.md

![Cosign Overview](/sigstore_cosign-horizontal-color.svg)

## Getting Started (Quick Start)

Cosign supports blob and container signing, verification, and storage in an OCI registry.

> Cosign aims to make signatures invisible infrastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cosign aims to make signatures into invisible infrastructure.
```

Reviewer: Added "into" because the sentence could be confusing without. But does this sentence belong here, actually? Is the point about invisible infrastructure related to the quickstart information about signing, verification, and storage, or is it a more general descriptive point that should go elsewhere?

Author: I will remove it.   It can go on the main concepts page.

> Cosign is part of the Sigstore project. Join us on our [Slack channel](https://sigstore.slack.com/) (need an [invite](https://links.sigstore.dev/slack-invite)?)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cosign is part of the Sigstore project. Join us on our [Slack channel](https://sigstore.slack.com/). (Need an [invite](https://links.sigstore.dev/slack-invite)?)
```

### Installation

> To get sigstore up and running, you simply need to install Cosign. instructions to install Cosign can be found at https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/installation/. 

Reviewer: Nit: is there agreement on whether the S should be capitalized in Sigstore?

Reviewer 2: It used to be lower-case, but has been title case for about a year. [Linux Foundation](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/blog/adopting-sigstore-incrementally) and [OpenSSF](https://openssf.org/community/sigstore/) both have it as title case

> To get sigstore up and running, you simply need to install Cosign. instructions to install Cosign can be found at https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/installation/. 

Reviewer: Nit: "to use Sigstore" would be clearer to non-native speakers than "up and running"

Reviewer 2: Do we want to conflate Sigstore and Cosign here? 

```suggestion
To use Sigstore, you need to install Cosign. Instructions to install Cosign can be found on the [Cosign Installation page](https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/installation/). 
```

> To get sigstore up and running, you simply need to install Cosign. instructions to install Cosign can be found at https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/installation/. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get sigstore up and running, you simply need to install Cosign. Instructions to install Cosign can be found at https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/installation/. 
```

This will allow you to sign both blobs and containers.   If you need a sample container to test signing with, you can create one by following the instructions at: https://cloud.google.com/artifact-registry/docs/docker/store-docker-container-images

### Signing a blob

The basic signing format for a blob is as follows:

```

> $ cosign sign-blob <file> --bundle txtbundle.bundle

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
$ cosign sign-blob <file> --bundle cosign.bundle
```

```

The bundle contains signing metadata, including the signature and certificate.  

> The Cosign command requests a certificate from our Certificate Authority Fulcio. Fulcio checks your identity by using an authentication protocol (OpenID Connect) to look at your email address. If your identity is correct, Fulcio grants a short-lived, time-stamped certificate. The certificate is bound to the public key to attest to your identity.  This activity is logged using Rekor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Cosign command requests a certificate from our Certificate Authority, which is called Fulcio. Fulcio checks your identity by using an authentication protocol (OpenID Connect) to look at your email address. If your identity is correct, Fulcio grants a short-lived, time-stamped certificate. The certificate is bound to the public key to attest to your identity.  This activity is logged using our Transparency Log, which is called Rekor.
```

Reviewer 3: * lower case certificate authority and transparency log
* change `our` to `the`

> Note that you don’t need to use a key to sign.  Currently, you can authenticate with Google, GitHub, or Microsoft. For more information, read [Keyless Signatures](https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/keyless/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Note that you don’t need to use a key to sign.  Currently, you can authenticate with Google, GitHub, or Microsoft, which will associate your identity with a short-lived signing key. For more information, read [Keyless Signatures](https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/keyless/).
```

> Cosign has additional options and features.   For more information enter the command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For more information about Cosign's additional options and features, run the command:
```

```
cosign sign-blob --help
```

### Verifying a signed blob

To verify a signed blob, you need to provide three pieces of information:

> * The certificate, found in the bundle

Reviewer: Will a new user (assuming someone who knows nothing about Sigstore but lands here to verify something) know what bundle you're referring to? Maybe I'm overthinking this, but is there potential for confusion?

Reviewer 3: +1. I like describing the pieces of information you need, then you can say something like "You may be provided a bundle that contains the certificate and signature".

Author: Rewrote section to indicate that the certificate and signature are not always in the bundle, but you may be provided with a bundle that has them.

* The signature, also found in the bundle

> * The identity used in signing

Reviewer: Will users know where/how to find the identity?

Reviewer 3: We don't want to tell them to just look at the certificate. Maybe we can say something like "The blob maintainer should provide their trusted identity"

Reviewer: Is this an important enough point to specify "The blog maintainer should provide the trusted identity separately from the certificate"?

Reviewer 2: What do we want to do here? This seems to be the last outstanding item @haydentherapper @jonvnadelberg

Reviewer 3: Kara's text LGTM

The following example verifies the signature on file.txt from user "name@example.com" issued by "accounts@example.com":

```

> $ cosign verify-blob file.txt --bundle txtbundle.bundle --certificate-identity=name@example.com 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
$ cosign verify-blob <file> --bundle cosign.bundle --certificate-identity=name@example.com 
```

                              --certificate-oidc-issuer=https://accounts.example.com
```

> To verify, Cosign queries the transparency log to compare the public key to what’s in Rekor, and checks the timestamp on the signature against the artifact’s entry in the transparency log. The signature is valid if its timestamp falls within the small window of time that the key pair and certificate issued by OpenID Connect were valid.

Reviewer: I thinking saying "queries the transparency log" and "Rekor" like this will be confusing by implying they're different things. Also, a user who lands on the Verify instructions might not have read the Signing instructions, so they haven't been introduced to the names yet.

Reviewer 3: +1

nit, the certificate is issued by the "certificate authority", not "OpenID Connect".

Author: reworded so that Rekor is mentioned as the location of the transparency log and changed openid connect to certificate authority.

### Working with containers

> Signing and verifying a container is similar to working with blobs.   The Cosign command to sign a container image is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Signing and verifying a container is similar to working with blobs.  The Cosign command to sign a container image is:
```

> Signing and verifying a container is similar to working with blobs.   The Cosign command to sign a container image is:

Reviewer 3: Let's also keep some of the existing text around signing other file types "To learn how to sign SBOMs, WASM modules, Tekton bundles and more...."

```
$ cosign sign <image URI>
```

> This works the same as signing a blob, but the signature becomes attached to the container itself.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This works the same as signing a blob, but the signature and certificate are attached as container metadata.
```

                              --certificate-oidc-issuer=https://accounts.example.com
```

## More Info
To verify, Cosign queries the transparency log to compare the public key to what’s in Rekor, and checks the timestamp on the signature against the artifact’s entry in the transparency log. The signature is valid if its timestamp falls within the small window of time that the key pair and certificate issued by OpenID Connect were valid.

Cosign can do much more than what is discussed here. Review more information on the commands by checking out the other sections of this site.
### Working with containers

### Other Formats
Signing and verifying a container is similar to working with blobs.   The Cosign command to sign a container image is:

Cosign is useful not only for containers and container-related artifacts; it can also be used for other file types. 
```
$ cosign sign <image URI>
```

To learn how to sign SBOMs, WASM modules, Tekton bundles and more, review [Signing Other Types](/cosign/other_types/). For basic blobs, review [Working with Blobs](/cosign/working_with_blobs/).
This works the same as signing a blob, but the signature becomes attached to the container itself.

> ### SCM Integration

Reviewer 3: I think it's fine to delete this section, but can we confirm that it's present in the installation documentation? Otherwise I would keep this

Author: Section was put back.

> $ cosign verify <image URI>

Reviewer 3: need to also include the identity and oidc-issuer flags here

Author: added.

To verify a signed container image, use the following command:

Cosign integrates natively with source code management (SCM) systems like GitHub and GitLab.
You can use the official [GitHub Actions Cosign installer](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/cosign-installer) or use `cosign` to generate and work safely with [SCM secrets](/cosign/git_support/) with native API integration.
```
$ cosign verify <image URI>
```
### Signing with a generated key

> ### Attestations

Reviewer 3: Can we keep this section? Can we have it link to https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/attestation?

Author: section was put back.

Reviewer 3: Could you also update this section to link to the attestations page?

> While you do not have to use an existing key you can generate a key and sign with it or another key you may wish to use.  However, it is recommended that you use keyless signing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although you do not have to use an existing key, you can generate a key or use and existing key for signing.  However, it is recommended that you use keyless signing.
```

Reviewer: Can we add a link to the explanation of why we recommend keyless signing?

> To generate keys using a KMS provider, you can use the cosign generate-key-pair command with the --kms flag.

Reviewer 3: Let's remove the bits about KMS, and you can just use the command `cosign generate-key-pair` to generate a key

Author: KMS part removed.

> The following example shows the process of signing with an existing key.  You must enter the password of the private key to sign.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows the process of signing with an existing key. You must enter the password of the private key to sign.
```

```
$ cosign verify-blob <file> --bundle cosign.bundle --certificate-identity=name@example.com 
                              --certificate-oidc-issuer=https://accounts.example.com
```

To verify, Cosign queries the transparency log (Rekor) to compare the public key bound to the certificate, and checks the timestamp on the signature against the artifact’s entry in the transparency log. The signature is valid if its timestamp falls within the small window of time that the key pair and certificate issued by the certificate authority were valid.

### Working with containers

Signing and verifying a container is similar to working with blobs.  The Cosign command to sign a container image is:

```
$ cosign sign <image URI>
```

This works the same as signing a blob, but the signature and certificate are attached as container metadata.

To verify a signed container image, use the following command:

```
$ cosign verify <image URI> --certificate-identity=name@example.com 
                            --certificate-oidc-issuer=https://accounts.example.com
```
### Signing with a generated key

> Although you do not have to use an existing key, you can generate a key or use an existing key for signing.  However, it is recommended that you use keyless signing, as a main feature of Sigstore is to make signatures invisible infrastructure.

Reviewer: I understand what's meant here, but I think the first part of the sentence could be confusing to new users. Would something like this work?

"It it recommended that you use keyless signing, as a main feature of Sigstore is to make signatures invisible infrastructure that do not require key management. However, Sigstore allows you to use an existing key or generate a key if you prefer."

Author: OK, I changed the text.

![Cosign Overview](/sigstore_cosign-horizontal-color.svg)

## Getting Started (Quick Start)

Cosign is part of the Sigstore project. Join us on our [Slack channel](https://sigstore.slack.com/). (Need an [invite](https://links.sigstore.dev/slack-invite)?)

### Installation

> To use Sigstore, you need to install Cosign. Instructions to install Cosign can be found on the [Cosign Installation page](https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/installation/). 

Reviewer 2: To me, it sounds like this is privileging Cosign above the other pieces of Sigstore, maybe it can be more oriented to what Cosign achieves?

```suggestion
To sign software artifacts and verify signatures using Sigstore, you need to install Cosign. Instructions to install Cosign can be found on the [Cosign Installation page](/cosign/installation/). 
```

> This will allow you to sign both blobs and containers.   If you need a sample container to test signing with, you can create one by following [these instructions](https://cloud.google.com/artifact-registry/docs/docker/store-docker-container-images).

Reviewer 2: Can we direct towards pulling down an image to sign vs. directing off-site, or else create a page with more direct instructions?

Author: I'll just remove the pointer for a sample container.

### Signing a blob

The basic signing format for a blob is as follows:

```
$ cosign sign-blob <file> --bundle cosign.bundle
```

The bundle contains signing metadata, including the signature and certificate.  

> The Cosign command requests a certificate from our certificate authority, Fulcio. Fulcio checks your identity by using an authentication protocol (OpenID Connect) to look at your email address. If your identity is correct, Fulcio grants a short-lived, time-stamped certificate. The certificate is bound to the public key to attest to your identity.  This activity is logged using our transparency and timestamping log, Rekor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Cosign command requests a certificate from the Sigstore certificate authority, Fulcio. Fulcio checks your identity by using an authentication protocol (OpenID Connect) to confirm your email address. If your identity is correct, Fulcio grants a short-lived, time-stamped certificate. The certificate is bound to the public key to attest to your identity.  This activity is logged using the Sigstore transparency and timestamping log, Rekor.
```

> Note that you don’t need to use a key to sign.  Currently, you can authenticate with Google, GitHub, or Microsoft, which will associate your identity with a short-lived signing key. For more information, read [Keyless Signatures](https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/keyless/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that you don’t need to use a key to sign.  Currently, you can authenticate with Google, GitHub, or Microsoft, which will associate your identity with a short-lived signing key. For more information, read [Keyless Signatures](/cosign/keyless/).
```

For more information about Cosign's additional options and features, run the command:

```
cosign sign-blob --help
```

### Verifying a signed blob

To verify a signed blob, you need to provide three pieces of information:
* The certificate
* The signature
* The identity used in signing

You may be provided with a bundle that includes the certificate and signature.  The blob maintainer should provide the trusted identity.

> The following example verifies the signature on file.txt from user "name@example.com" issued by "accounts@example.com".  It uses a provided bundle "cosign.bundle" that contains the certificate and signature.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example verifies the signature on `file.txt` from user `name@example.com` issued by `accounts@example.com`.  It uses a provided bundle `cosign.bundle` that contains the certificate and signature.
```

```
$ cosign verify-blob <file> --bundle cosign.bundle --certificate-identity=name@example.com 
                              --certificate-oidc-issuer=https://accounts.example.com
```

> To verify, Cosign queries the transparency log to compare the public key to what’s in Rekor, and checks the timestamp on the signature against the artifact’s entry in the transparency log. The signature is valid if its timestamp falls within the small window of time that the key pair and certificate issued by OpenID Connect were valid.

Reviewer 3: Not: Looks like it’s still OpenID Connect instead of certificate authority

Author: I thought I fixed this.  OK, fixed.

### Working with containers

Signing and verifying a container is similar to working with blobs.  The Cosign command to sign a container image is:

```
$ cosign sign <image URI>
```

This works the same as signing a blob, but the signature and certificate are attached as container metadata.

To verify a signed container image, use the following command:

```
$ cosign verify <image URI> --certificate-identity=name@example.com 
                            --certificate-oidc-issuer=https://accounts.example.com
```
### Signing with a generated key

Although you do not have to use an existing key, you can generate a key or use an existing key for signing.  However, it is recommended that you use keyless signing, as a main feature of Sigstore is to make signatures invisible infrastructure.

> To generate keys using Cosign, use the cosign generate-key-pair command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To generate keys using Cosign, use the `cosign generate-key-pair` command.
```

```
$ cosign generate-key-pair 
```

The following example shows the process of signing with an existing key. You must enter the password of the private key to sign.
```
$ cosign sign --key cosign.key user/demo
Enter password for private key:
Pushing signature to: index.docker.io/user/demo:sha256-87ef60f558bad79be4def8.sig
```
### Other Formats
Cosign is useful not only for blobs, containers, and container-related artifacts; it can also be used for other file types.

> To learn how to sign SBOMs, WASM modules, Tekton bundles and more, review [Signing Other Types](https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/other_types/). For more information about blobs, review [Working with Blobs](https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/working_with_blobs/).

Reviewer 2: I would recommend not using the hard URL for the in-site linking

```suggestion
To learn how to sign SBOMs, WASM modules, Tekton bundles and more, review [Signing Other Types](/cosign/other_types/). For more information about blobs, review [Working with Blobs](/cosign/working_with_blobs/).
```

### SCM Integration

> Cosign integrates natively with source code management (SCM) systems like GitHub and GitLab. You can use the official [GitHub Actions Cosign installer](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/cosign-installer) or use cosign to generate and work safely with [SCM secrets](https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/git_support/) with native API integration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Cosign integrates natively with source code management (SCM) systems like GitHub and GitLab. You can use the official [GitHub Actions Cosign installer](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/cosign-installer) or use cosign to generate and work safely with [SCM secrets](/cosign/git_support/) with native API integration.
```
